good
afternoon my colleagues and I remain
squarely focused on our dual mandate to
promote maximum employment and stable
prices for the American
people as we approach the end of the
year it's natural to look back on the
progress that has been made toward our
dual mandate
objectives inflation has eased from its
highs and this has come without a
significant increase in unemployment
that's very good
news but inflation is still too high
ongoing progress in bringing it down is
not assured and the path forward is
uncertain as we look ahead to next year
I want to assure the American people
that we're fully committed to returning
inflation to our 2%
goal restoring price stability is
essential to achieve a sustained period
of strong labor market conditions that
benefit
all since early last year the fomc has
significantly tightened The Stance of
monetary policy we've raised our policy
interest rate by 5 and a qu percentage
points and have continued to reduce our
Securities Holdings at a Brisk
Pace our actions have moved our policy
rate well into restrictive territory
meaning that tight policy is putting
downward pressure on economic activity
and inflation and the full effects of
our tightening likely have not yet been
felt today we decided to leave our
policy interest rate unchanged and to
continue to reduce our Securities
Holdings given how far we have come
along with the uncertainties and risks
that we Face the committee is proceeding
carefully we will make decisions about
the extent of any additional policy
firming and how long policy will remain
restrictive based on the totality of the
incoming data the evolving Outlook and
the balance of
risks I will have more to say about
monetary policy after briefly reviewing
economic
developments recent indicators suggest
that growth of economic activity has
slowed substant stally from the outsized
pace seen in the third
quarter even so GDP is on track to
expand around 22% for the year as a
whole bolstered by strong consumer
demand as well as improving Supply
conditions after picking somewhat over
the up so much over the summer activity
in the housing sector has flattened out
and remains well below the levels of a
year ago largely reflecting higher
mortgage
rates higher interest rates also appear
to be weighing on business fixed
investment in our summary of economic
projections committee participants
revised up their assessments of GDP
growth this year but expect growth to
cool with a median projection falling to
1.4% next
year the labor market remains tight but
supply and demand conditions continue to
come into better
balance over the past 3 months payroll
job gains averaged 204,000 jobs per
month a strong Pace that is nevertheless
below below that seen earlier in the
year the unemployment rate remains low
at
3.7% strong job creation has been
accompanied by an increase in the supply
of workers the labor force participation
rate has moved up since last year
particularly for individuals aged 25 to
54 years and immigration has returned to
pre-pandemic
levels nominal wage growth appears to be
easing and job vacancies have
declined
although the jobs to workers Gap has
narrowed labor demand still exceeds the
supply of available
workers fomc participants expect the
rebalancing in the labor market to
continue easing upward pressures on
inflation the median unemployment rate
projection in the SCP Rises somewhat
from 3.8% at the end of this year to
4.1% at the end of next
year inflation has eased over the past
year but remains a above our longer run
goal of
2% based on the Consumer Price Index and
other data we estimate that total pce
Prices rose 2.6% over the 12 months
ending in November and that excluding
the volatile food and energy categories
core pce prices Rose
3.1% the lower inflation readings over
the past several months are welcome but
we will need to see further evidence to
build confidence that inflation is
moving down sustainably toward our goal
longer term inflation expectations
appear to remain well anchored as
reflected in a broad range of surveys of
households businesses and forecasters as
well as measures from financial
markets as is evident from the SCP we
anticipate that the process of getting
inflation all the way to 2% will take
some time the median projection in the
SCP is 2.8% this year Falls to 2.4% next
year and reaches 2% in
2026 the fed's monetary policy actions
are Guided by our mandate to promote
maximum employment and stable prices for
the American people my colleagues and I
are acutely aware that high inflation
imposes significant hardship as it erods
purchasing power especially for those
least able to meet the higher costs of
Essentials like food housing and
transportation we're highly highly
attentive to the risks that high
inflation poses to both sides of our
mandate and we are strongly committed to
returning inflation to our 2%
objective as I noted earlier since early
last year we have raised our policy rate
by 5 and a quar percentage points and we
have decreased our Securities Holdings
by more than a trillion
dollars our restrictive stance of
monetary policy is putting downward
pressure on economic activity and
inflation the committee decided at
today's meeting to maintain the target
range for the federal funds rate at 5
and A4 to
52% and to to continue the process of
significantly reducing our Securities
Holdings while while we believe that our
policy rate is likely at or near its
peak for this tightening cycle the
economy has surprised forecasters in
many ways since the pandemic and ongoing
progress sorry ongoing progress toward
our 2% inflation objective is not
assured we are prepared to tighten
policy further if appropriate we're
committed to achieving a stance of
monetary policy that is sufficiently
restrictive to bring in sustainably down
to 2% over time and to keeping policy
restrictive until we're confident that
inflation is on a path to that
objective in our SCP uh fomc
participants wrote down their individual
assessments of an appropriate path for
the federal funds rate based on what
each participant judges to be the most
likely scenario going
forward while participants do not view
it as likely to be appropriate to raise
interest rates further neither do they
want to take the possibil ility off the
table if the economy evolves as
projected the median participant
projects that the appropriate level of
the federal funds rate will be 4.6% at
the end of 2024 3.6% at the end of 2025
and 2.9% at the end of
2026 still above the median longer term
rate these projections are not a
committee decision or plan if the
economy does not evolve as projected the
path of policy will adjust as
appropriate to Foster our maximum
employment and price stability
goals in light of the uncertainties and
risks and how far we have come the
committee is proceeding carefully we
will continue to make our decisions
meeting by meeting based on the totality
of the incoming data and their
implications for the outlook for
economic activity and inflation as well
as the balance of
risks in determining the extent of any
additional policy firming that may be
appropriate to return inflation to 2%
over time the committee will take into
account the C cumulative tightening of
monetary policy the lags with which
monetary policy affects economic
activity and inflation and economic and
financial
developments we remain committed to
Bringing inflation back down to our 2%
goal and to keeping longer term
inflation expectations well anchored
restoring price stability is essential
to set the stage for achieving maximum
employment and stable prices over the
longer
run to conclude we understand that our
actions affect communities families and
businesses across the country everything
we do is in service to our public
Mission we at the FED will do everything
we can to achieve our maximum employment
and price stability
goals
